I was definitely
ruthless about killing the complexity
and the dragon in the back. There is
massive potential in this bank. Some of
it needed to be unleashed. [music]
Things don't become complex by design.
They end up becoming complex by lack of
focus. You wanted you needed we needed
to be agile. So bringing the focus at
the simplification will allow you to
start dealing with it. I'm Francine
Lacqua and this is Leaders, the podcast
that explores what drives the world's
most influential minds. Joining me this
week is Georges Elhedery, the chief
executive of HSBC, one of the world's
biggest banks. He's been in the top job
[music] since September of 2024 and not
shied away from difficult decisions
including a huge restructure slashing
[music] thousands of jobs.
While some might consider his methods
ruthless, HSBC's share price has
responded positively. It's roughly
doubled to a record high since Elhedery
took over. And after an eventful first
year, I wanted to catch up with him and
dig into those management decisions,
understand [music]
how he's evolved as a leader, and hear
how he's thinking about AI.
Georges, thank you so much for speaking
to us.
>> Great to be with you, Francine. We were
counting how many languages you spoke.
Eight?
So I've studied eight languages.
Other people should judge if I speak
them. Do you have a love for languages?
>> I'm fascinated by languages. Because
>> you're fascinated by cultures, then
you're fascinated by understanding
how they think and how they express
themselves and that basically naturally
links you to understanding their
language. Can you only be a good leader
if you understand people?
I think you have to definitely listen.
Um and if you can listen in in their own
language, then even better. You grew up
in Lebanon. Yes. And what was your early
childhood like? So I grew up in Lebanon.
Um I have um
uh at age 18 I moved to France for my
university. Um I then picked an
internship in Germany and by coincidence
I ended up doing an internship in
banking.
Uh so I went back to Paris to finish my
uh postgraduate degree in finance,
statistics, and economics cuz I enjoyed
it, of course.
And I picked up my first job in Japan.
And then um back to London at that time
up until the time where HSBC hired me
and that was exactly 20 years ago. At
the time you wanted to be an engineer.
So what attracted you to finance?
So I absolutely wanted to be an
engineer. I studied as an engineer and
um as you know back to your question
about languages, I had studied German
for about 10 to 12 years at that time.
So I wanted to do an internship in
Germany.
Um the only internship I managed to land
was an internship on the trading floor
in Frankfurt. So I took it.
And then I got addicted to it. What did
you like about it?
I like the pace. I like the still you
know that at that time remember there's
a lot of financial engineering so you're
still using a lot of your engineering
skills. Uh you know it still happens
right and then all sorts of you know
it's highly transferable to finance.
Um I liked um the accountability. I
liked the early responsibility you can
get. So this way it started. Georges,
did you always want to be a leader? Were
you a leader as a child?
It's difficult to define what a leader
um is especially if leader of child. If
it's a matter of living up uh with high
standards and high values and um and
high integrity and being able to project
that around you, then yes, that started
very early with me. But there are
certain traits in leadership that really
resonate with me. The first one is you
lead by example.
You walk the talk.
You demonstrate that things apply to you
as they would apply to anybody else that
you expect them to be applied to and you
don't ever make an exception for
yourself. When you look at leadership,
how does I guess the young formative
years
you know, give you a sense of who you
will become? You learn and you feel what
is right and what is not right. And a
number of uh people around you including
my direct family, my parents, my ha you
know, it kind of form part of how you
think and what ethical standard you set
yourself and
the integrity by which you operate. And
then sometimes around you you feel
things aren't right or aren't fair and
it's very important to stand your line,
to hold your line.
>> That's difficult. How do you do that? It
is difficult. Discipline.
It's very important to hold the
discipline and it's very important to
um think of yourself as your own brand.
If you want your own brand to remain the
brand of integrity, then
it's very important you stick to it. I
I've heard I mean some chief executives
say it is, you know, they decided from
very early on who they did not want to
be.
Is [snorts] it Is it choosing who you do
not want to be or who you want to be?
What's easiest? I think both go hand in
hand. It's very important to
realize who you want to be
um and by comparison realize also what
are the traits you absolutely do not uh
you know, do not appreciate, do not
regard and therefore that you want to
stay away from. Talk to me about your I
guess your your favorite pre-CEO job at
HSBC. Do you have uh you know,
a place in the world where you really
kind of had to hone in on your
leadership skills and understand the
culture? I've spent 20 years at HSBC now
and there isn't a single geography on
the planet where I spent that long. So
there is a sense of belonging for me to
HSBC that that supersedes any kind of
physical attachment to any place. I mean
with HSBC I've been
I I don't know if I can count now
however many dozens and dozens and
dozens of times probably hundreds uh to
places like Hong Kong uh you know, one
of the two HSBC home markets.
Um the Middle East where I spent many
years for HSBC specifically in Dubai but
also roving around the whole of the
Middle East. Uh Europe, of course. Uh
the US. Um the Asia and you know, as a
whole. It's it's just amazing the
opportunities you have to get there and
every time you're there you spend time,
you create more connections, you have an
even deeper understanding. I mean if I
ask I bring 10 people in the room and
ask them how many geographies they
worked for for HSBC
you would find people who tell you more
than 10.
That kind of experience frankly is
unique. But Georges, if you look at for
example some of the Wall Street banks,
they're more cutthroat but they pay
their people a lot more. Is that
something that you worry about?
I mean it's very important that we uh we
reward our people fairly. Uh we reward
our people competitively and we reward
performance. But that's not the only
component. The other component is what
is the environment in which they
operate. Who are their colleagues, their
bosses.
Um what is their purpose? Who are they
serving? Why they're serving them? Can
they be their their their true selves?
Can they operate with the highest
integrity standards as they wish to? Um
uh all of that kind of form part of the
prop value proposition HSBC offers its
employees and this is what makes the
kind of equation collectively work for
all our colleagues. Everybody has to
make decisions big or small. But not
everyone runs a bank with 200,000
employees. When Elhedery took over as
CEO, he really wasted no time [music]
making his mark ushering in a big
restructure and laying off thousands of
people. So I was curious to understand
how he thinks about company-wide
challenges and what gave him [music] the
courage to move so fast and so
decisively. So Georges, talk to me about
when you get the call that you've you
know, been appointed chief executive.
What's your first thought? Of course the
first thought is to be humbled and
honored for being given this
fantastic uh responsibility.
Um but what really mattered for me is
what I can do for this bank, not who I
was or what my title was in this bank.
Now it so happens there's a lot you can
do as a group CEO uh in terms of
affecting change or affecting you know,
put you know, bringing potential to the
bank. So it was it was therefore the
great um kind of uh opportunity for me
to be able to do what I really set out
to do and what I had the full support of
the board to do. But you you moved fast,
right? You got appointed and then you
actually said did does a chief executive
need to move fast to kind of say right,
this is the change and this is what we
need to be and is it all on you or did
you govern by consensus? So a few things
on that, Francine. The first one is
there is massive potential in this bank.
Some of it needed to be unleashed. It
needed to be unlocked.
And some of that unlocking of the
potential had to go through
re-engineering of certain of our
aspects. So re-engineering the bank,
re-wiring the bank so that we can unlock
this potential. Then having been in the
bank 20 years operating in a number of
geographies and businesses and functions
myself, I've built a lot of experience
and a very large network
of colleagues who have been also feeding
their input and their concerns which
kind of forms a big set of um kind of
action book if you want.
And then um third, very importantly, um
I was already sitting at the board as a
group uh CFO before I took the CEO role.
Um and all these conversations I was
having with uh with my board. And if you
have the support of the board, you of
course you know, have the kind of right
to be able to to act quickly.
>> But what was the most difficult thing
about about that first restructuring
plan? Cuz you have to get rid of units
that maybe you're attached to having
worked here for so long. There's, you
know, people that you like that maybe
you've had to move around. Again, was it
intellectual or, you know, are you
ruthless about it?
I was definitely
ruthless about killing the complexity
and the drag in the back. The most
difficult part is when you have to
separate with some of your colleagues.
Um, I think we've been very thoughtful.
We've been very considerate. We've done
it, uh,
hopefully the right way and the most
respectful way for the benefit
ultimately of the firm and its
customers. You wanted you needed we
needed to be agile. We needed it to be,
um, you know, to be ready for the modern
world. And to be that, we needed to be
simple.
And therefore, you know, kind of
everything then drives what decisions
you take from the from that mission
statement. How did the bank become so
complex? And again, this is something
that actually most organizations have to
face as they grow.
I guess there's, you know, various
factions or a lot of companies actually
could just become much more simple and
simplified. Had What did you see?
Entropy is a feature. Entropy tends to
increase, which means complexity, if you
do nothing about it, tends to increase
rather than decrease. So, things don't
become complex by design. They end up
becoming complex by lack of focus. So,
bringing the focus at the simplification
will allow you to start dealing with it.
That's the first observation. Second
observation, you have to be extremely
methodical. What has created the um, you
know, complexity? How can it be
addressed methodically? Try to identify
ways to be simple. Uh, some of the ways
to be simple is to decide not to do
certain things, and this is why we
exited a number of activities. The third
thing is when you're taking, um,
structure decisions, you have to start
from the top down.
You can't take structure decision from
the bottom up. This is why the first
decision structure that I've taken
relates to simplifying the group
operating committee.
We moved from more than people to about
12. More importantly, we moved from 0%
single accountability. Everything had
dual or multiple accountability to now
about 60% of our revenue is generated
under single accountability. So, that's
important. And then the last thing,
Francine, is to be patient because it's
not going to We're not solving
simplification overnight. It's going to
be a journey, and we have to be
relentless at that journey quarter after
quarter, month after month until we get
the desired outcomes. And that journey
is still on. Like, we're not there yet.
But as a big chief executive of a of a
big bank, you basically have, you know,
the shareholders that you need to
please. So, simplification may be
helpful for them understanding what the
bank wants to become. You have your
clients, and then you also have the
employees. So, how how difficult is it
to juggle these, you know, three
masters? So, there is one consideration
which fortunately the three masters
align on.
Is being best at what you do.
Your customers want you to be at the
best at what you serve them with.
Customers dictate.
Your shareholders will pay you for what
you're best at doing. They won't give
you valuation for something that you're
average. They will give you valuation
for where you really command, where
you're an authority in being able to
provide that service or that product in
that market. So, the shareholders align
to be the And then our colleagues want
to be the best at what Our colleagues
want to win. Our colleagues are in a
competitive landscape, and they want to
win. And they basically thrive when
they're the when we're delivering the
best we can and when we're delivering
best outcomes, uh, and we're basically
the best at what we do. So, you know,
you take this as a guiding thread, and
you say, "Let's focus on that." Focus
where we can grow in areas where we're
the most competitively advantaged. And
then everybody aligns, colleagues,
clients, and shareholders. Is that why
you learned Mandarin? You wanted to be
the best for HSBC? Yeah, I don't think
I'm the best at HSBC speaking Mandarin.
That's far from it. But you're the first
CEO to speak Mandarin. Possibly, yes.
Uh, I think what is important is, um,
to gain access to understanding,
um, you know, the culture in which HSBC
operates. And obviously one of the, um,
very important cultures within HSBC as a
whole, uh, but that is probably one of
the least understood for, say, people
living in you know, in in London like
I'm living now,
uh, is understanding the Chinese
culture. And, you know, if you really
want to understand the the Chinese way
of way of thinking, the way of
reasoning, the way of negotiating or
engaging or presenting simply,
um, then it there is no better way than
kind of put the pain in trying to learn
the language and see how it's done in
the language. It it was quite bold
because you took a sabbatical for it.
Was it a difficult decision or did you
automatically know this was the the
right way to also service your clients?
First, I knew if I really wanted to make
a leapfrog in my, you know, early starts
in in Mandarin, it needed it needed much
more time than I could give it. Now, I'm
proud to say I still take, um, lessons.
Whether I'm progressing or not, I don't
know, but I'm still taking lessons. I'm
maintaining that, you know, that, uh,
you know, that journey. But there needed
to be a leapfrog at the start, which a
which a sabbatical has helped. Was it
for yourself or was it for the bank? Cuz
it's interesting it was it was Mandarin
and nothing and and not something else.
No, well, look. I mean,
you know, I've taken 6 month out, and
there are a number of things I achieved
during those 6 months. Some of them
personal, some of them professional,
but, uh, yes, uh,
it was full on.
The future is AI, and in our
conversation, Noel Quinn made that very
evident. But bringing [music] colleagues
along for the ride is one of his new
leadership challenges.
Talk to me about in simple terms, right,
how you see the bank in 5 years. The
world is moving fast. We need to move
fast. Our customers are moving fast. We
need to move fast. Their needs today
will be different tomorrow. Their goals
today will be different tomorrow, and we
need to be continuously adapting to
their evolving needs and their evolving
goals, right? There are two key or a few
key components that can achieve this.
Um, most importantly, the first
component is the human touch, okay? Uh,
we're still in a very much believer in a
model where there'll always be a person
to talk to. So, we invest in our
relationship management. Uh, we invest
in our, uh, you know, people skills and
capabilities. We invest in our people,
simply.
>> So, we're not being replaced by AI.
So, that's the second component is we
absolutely need to be innovation ready
and embrace it and enable our
capabilities and, uh,
uh,
and be able to embrace a number emerging
payments through blockchain or
uh, tokenized deposit, all of which we
launched, by the way. But, you know,
that that's an evolving world. But also
being, you know, GenAI ready in
particular. I mean, AI has been with us
for 15 years, but
GenAI is clearly bringing something new
to the equation. Now, we have
we have more than 100 cases,
uh, of which about half of them are
already live in production,
um, that are transformational,
um, and they're going to change the way
we as humans operate.
And while we as humans will not be
replaced by AI, if we don't know how to
embrace it and upskill ourselves using
it,
we will become obsolete. So, this is why
my call to our colleagues has been to
bring all of them along the journey of
how can we best use GenAI opportunities
because for those who don't use them,
there is a real risk that they will be
displaced. But those who will use them
are going to be part of the future. But
if you're a young kid today and you want
to get into banking, what do you study?
Let me try to answer it with two-pronged
approach. The first one, GenAI specific,
right? We now rolled to 170,000
of our colleagues internal productivity
tools that can materially improve their
capabilities of reading documents,
reading emails, writing documents,
emails, querying, challenging The dream.
Thought process.
100 170,000 of our employees. I mean,
soon soon all the way to the 200
plus thousand employees. Of course, I
will be monitoring usage. I'll be
monitoring super usage. Those will be
the most, um,
you know, kind of influencing among
their colleagues to drive the
utilization. But utilization is not
optional because that's how people
remain very relevant in the future
workforce 5 years down the road. But
we're using GenAI in in wealth. We're
using GenAI in markets. We're using
GenAI in contact centers. We're using,
uh, GenAI, of course, in technology.
Now, 30,000 of our technologists
engineers are enabled with GenAI.
The speed at which we're able to patch
for, say, uh, code weaknesses or uh,
kind of vulnerabilities is 10 times
faster already now than it was the case
last year.
10 times. I mean, we're not talking In
12 months. In 12 months. We're not
talking We're not talking some
productivity in 5 years. We're talking
productivity already here. This is a
hugely transformational. So, you can
imagine how important it is.
Now, I go back to the first part of your
question, Francine, is what are the
skills that are needed for for banks? I
would say there is no one particular
skill
that's going to be critical, but it is
going to be the ability to learn.
Because you can come in the bank coming
from an engineering background, from a
technology background, from an
accounting background. But once you're
in the bank,
your career, the customer's expectation
are such that you're going to have to
continuously learn. And if you think you
know it all, then there is no place, uh,
for the for those, you know, in the in
in a in an evolving, uh, landscape.
Today, the most important learning
capability is how to best embrace GenAI
and innovation in general. Are you
surprised that these, you know, tariffs
and trade barriers that have been
erected really in 2025 haven't had that
much of a material impact?
>> So, a a couple of things here, Francine,
that are interesting. The first one is
tariff in and of themselves aren't a new
feature of global trade. They've always
was forms of tariff.
What what was more new in 2025 is the
speed at which both tariffs have been
erected, but also deals have been
negotiated to reduce tariffs or remove
tariffs. So, that was kind of the the
the new feature.
Um what's also important to note is that
yes, trade found its way and we've seen
trade patterns be, you know, between
um between Asia and the Middle East or
within Asia or into some extent also
between Asia and Europe that have
outgrown some of the corridors that have
taken um you know, that that have been
slower in terms of trade growth or that
have taken a kind of a set setback in in
terms of trade growth.
Um what's most important with these
reconfiguration of trade patterns
is that based on our internal research,
we believe the um
the the uh
kind of addition to GDP that these new
trade patterns within Asia will bring to
Asia
um will three times more than offset the
loss of GDP that will be um you know,
due to the reduction of trade with the
US. So, there is clearly uh you know,
value creation when we see Asia buying
Asia and this trade these trade patterns
and these trade corridors grow because
they're driving not only trade, but
they're driving FDI, they're driving
employment, they're driving domestic
growth as much as it is trade growth.
Georges, I mean, this year, you know,
the next couple of years seems to be
much more complicated because of
geopolitics. You have this massive fight
between the US and China, Europe
somewhere in the middle, the UK has to
find its footing.
How difficult is it to to navigate
geopolitics as HSBC CEO?
So, look, there is always a guiding
North Star
in managing international kind of
relations. It is what do our customers
need from us? Because at the end of the
day, whatever we're doing
we're doing it because we have customers
asking us to help them with or to
deliver it for them, right?
So, as long as you believe on this
planet, we will have loads and loads and
loads and loads of international
customers who are looking for supply
chains around the planet, who are
looking for resilience in their supply
chains around the planet, who are also
looking for consumer markets for their
product and services around the planet
to scale their capabilities,
um then HSBC has a critical role to
play.
All right, rapid fire. Your top tips for
holding highly effective meetings. Make
decisions.
A poor decision is always better than no
decision because you can always change a
poor decision and align it and adapt it.
No decision leads to paralysis. [music]
How do you overcome self-doubt or
imposter syndrome? Always go to first
principles. What is your mission and is
what you're doing aligned to your
mission? There are various leadership
principles I live by.
An important one is great leaders build
better leaders. Am I on that journey?
And I do I have great leaders around me
that I'm helping build? [music]
What honest advice do you try to impart
someone you identify with having great
potential?
Enjoy it.
You can't be too
>> [music]
>> worked out in not surround things. It's
very important take always step back, a
deep breath,
and just do it
the way that you feel you're enjoying it
because you'll be much more impactful.
I love that. Have fun along the way,
right? Georges, thank you so much for
your time. Thank you very much,
Francine.
Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye.